---
title: "Community"
date: 2023-06-18T19:25:00-08:00
draft: false
---

It's interesting living in a new pocket of a place I've lived for many years. Maybe finding a place that makes sense? Or something closer to sense. I've lived in San Diego for, well, since 2014. So coming up close to 10 years now. But where I'm at now "Normal Heights" or maybe more specifically the "Corridor" things are different. That's a bit obvious really. Every place I've lived in San Diego has been different. 

What I notice here though is a sense of community. I'd been slowly noticing the community as friends helped me move (thanks Jordan), come visit, and now stayed with me for a couple days (hi Kevin!). Seeing, oh, things are in walking distance. Oh you can bike pretty much everywhere. Oh the post office is just over there? Wow. It feels more like being in a city, more vibrant. Less suburban. Less sprawl, and not to say there is no sprawl either, but it feels closer. 

This feeling of closeness is wonderful, and maybe scary? A chance for knowing people deeper. A chance for vulernability. It's exciting.

The noticings all came to a head this past Friday however. I went to a local bike shop in the afternoon ([adams ave bicycles](https://www.aabikes.net/)), partially because I saw they sell Surly's there. And I ride one. An opportunity to say hi and meet some people with some common sensibilities probably. It definiely scared me and I was hesistant to even ride over. Not knowing what to say, but I do love my bike. And when I went it was great, chill. Andrea rung me up and I quickly said hi to Chuck. While Andrea was ringing me up though, she welcomed me to the neighborhood. Amazing. She mentioned they do rides every Tuesday at 5:30 before the weekly Velodrome race. I guess I'll be showing up to that. Anyway this whole thing was wonderful and I'm so glad I went to this shop. I certainly will continue to support them as long as I live in the area. 

This same friday, I also went to slackline after working. I wanted to go check out a new park, so I biked to Ward Canyon Park. I took a couple weird turns, but I learned a good way to get there now. Upon showing up I was again nervous, as I tend to be. A bunch of people, and I'm about to set up something most of them have never seen. So I began to set up a line, I chose to try to set up something maybe around 175-200ft long. I'd done something this long before but unsuccessful since it's gotta be quite tight to not touch the ground and I don't have a pulley system or want to invest in one yet. And I get most of the way through setting up, and tightening the line, when a group of kids comes over and asks what I'm doing. I tell em I'm gonna walk the line. And they're all confused and mind blown, asking all kinds of questions. After I get mostly set up they are playing all over the line. Just messing around with it and having fun. After a while an employee from the city comes over and let's us know they are going to show a movie at 8pm. I was mind blown this time, the community has events. Woah. Cool. I hadn't eaten so I stayed till about 7 and man, a ton of people were coming through. Really cool to see. I wonder if they do that every week. I guess I'll show up to the park and find out. And next time I'm gonna bring a few slacklines for the kids so we can all have fun and have different lines that work for all of us better. I want to blow their minds even more when I try to set up a long line across the park, maybe 20ft off the ground.

This is all to say the community here strikes me heavily. I just do things that I already enjoy and there's people there doing things too and inviting you to those things. A wonderful thing that I couldn't be more grateful to have. For myself I guess I have to work on getting out there when invited. Showing up. Regardless of if I am scared or nervous and letting pepole suprise me with kindness. They pretty much always do. 
